# Pomona
Download a list of delicious fruit to your phone, and see how much they cost and weigh!

# Dependencies
* Android Studio. The version used when creating the app was Android Studio Arctic Fox | 2020.3.1 Patch 2.
* Android SDK 29 minimum.
* Retrofit as a HTTP client.
* Moshi for parsing JSON into Kotlin objects.
* Hilt for dependency injection.
* JUnit 4 for unit testing.
* Espresso and Barista for UI testing.
* Mockito for created mock objects for testing.
* See also app level and project level Gradle builds (build.gradle) for further dependencies.

# Installation Instructions
* Extract the files from pomona.zip.
* Open the app using Android Studio.
* Run either on a connected Android device, or by using an Android Emulator.

# Instructions
* With a connection to the internet, open up the app.
* A list of fruit should be downloaded and displayed on the screen.  If there is an error retrieving the data, a toast will display saying "Error performing network call."
* You can reload the data by clicking the circular blue button in the lower right hand corner of the screen.
* If you click on an individual fruit in the list, it will take you to a new screen with further details, namely the price in pounds and pence, and the weight in kilograms.

# Confirmation Exercise Specification Met
* There are two screens (FruitListFragment and FruitDetailFragment) for displaying data about fruit.
* The first screen (FruitListFragment) displays a list of fruit.
* When the user selects and item, the application displays a second screen (FruitDetailFragment) containing more information about the fruit.
* The details provided are the price in pounds and pence, and the weight in kilograms.
* The application downloads a JSON data file from a web server (https://bit.ly/1QW6CrK).
* Note: I have stored this data in a local SQLite database using Room for data persistence, so that a user can view downloaded fruit if they have no internet.
* The user can reload the data by clicking a blue floating action button on the FruitListFragment screen.
* Usage stats can be generated by issuing a GET request to a web server (https://bit.ly/1M9S7RY). This uses the UsageStatsManager object.
* The event and data parameters are appended to the URL:
	* For network requests, the time taken in ms for the network call to obtain fruit data is appended, along with event=load.
	* For display events, the time taken in ms from when the user initiates a request that would show the screen to the time the screen finishes drawing is appended, along with event=display.  This would be when the user chooses to view more fruit details, and when the user presses the back button to return to the first screen.
	* For errors such as raised exceptions, the name of the exception, the line number and the class it occured in are appended, along with event=error.  This could be an error with the data obtained (such as non-numerical price and weight data), or a bad network request.

# Acknowledgements
* The Android Open Source Project for the fantastic amount of information to help coders in an accessible way.
* Google's Jose Alcerreca for the Event class, which I use in most of my Android projects.
